# gvg_job_scraper
App for searching for jobs on Icelandic websites. <br>
Web version of project, hosted by Github: https://classychameleon.github.io/

I used Flutter mainly to try out the tech and see what I think about it. <br>
I like Flutter because of it's simplicity and how easy it is to create something that looks somewhat decent. <br>
Since I don't know how far this project will go, it's nice to know that I wont have to worry about platform integration. <br>

Two problems I faced were gathering information from the websites themselves and aggregating the results. <br>
Alfred was nice since it has a public api which return easy to use json data, but tvinna was a different beast. <br>
I spent a while trying to find the api for Tvinna but no dice. I decided to do some good old fashioned Web Scraping. <br>
It's a bit more difficult gathering data from HTML than from json, but finding the relevant div tags really simplified this. <br>
Since Tvinna has CORS which prevents other websites from accessing it, my Github hosting of the site relies on local data rather than scraping from tvinna. <br>

Aggregating the results was the trickiest part. <br>
The procedure that fetches the data from each website is async, so I need to make a system which searches each search word from each <br>
website and only adds the job listing if it doesn't exist already. If it already exists, it checks if it can add any missing data from the existing entry. <br>
Now this sounds simple enough, but this needs to be <br>
Scalable (easy to add more websites)<br> 
Efficient (results are processed immediately even if not all searches have returned) <br>
Reliable (Dart is a single-threaded language so I don't have to worry about race conditions) and <br>
Transparent (the user needs to know what is happening while searching, so for simplicity only one search word is fetched at a time). <br>

Features I would add if I were to work more on this would be
* local database for your search presets (currently they only persist throughout the session)
* email system where you can email yourself job postings so you can apply for them when you get home to your desktop computer.
* additional filters, such as blacklisting companies, disallowing results from having a keyword
* search bar for your results
* website actually being able to get data from tvinna instead of using local data
I should also add a License for this project

# How to setup and run JobScraper
The steps to running this project are the same as most other flutter projects. <br>
Here are the rough steps on getting it to work:

1. Clone or download this project
2. Install Flutter. You will need to use Flutter in the CMD for this
3. Open the project in your preferred IDE (I use VSCode)
4. use 'flutter pub get' in the terminal to fetch dependencies
5. use 'flutter run' to run the project. It may ask which environment it should run in.

# File organization
    .
    ├── android                   # Auto-generated
    ├── assets                    # Assets such as images or data for test cases
    ├── ios                       # Auto-generated
    ├── lib                       # Source files
    ├── linux                     # Auto-generated
    ├── macos                     # Auto-generated
    ├── web                       # Auto-generated
    ├── windows                   # Auto-generated
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── .metadata
    ├── README.md
    ├── analysis_options.yaml
    └── pubspec.yaml

Autogenerated folders are for platform integration

**lib**
    .
    ├── classes                   # Custom classes
    ├── pages                     # The "views" or "screens" that comprise the app
    ├── searches                  # The code that looks up jobs based on search word
    ├── widgets                   # Custom reusable widgets
    ├── main.dart                 # Kicks off the app
    └── util.dart                 # Utility functions

*
